So let's quickly recap what we've done in the last couple of lectures.
First we added this color field and then using wp_add_inline_styles() we had some inline styles to our websites
in order to override some of our original styles to use this color field.
So if we in the iframe, which represents our website, open the HEAD tag. We will find our inline styles
here. And by changing this color by default
the Customizer will reload the iframe. And therefore these styles will be updated. But we further
improved this experience by using the postMessage technique and replacing the styles inside the STYLE
tag using JavaScript. And to do that we had to duplicate the CSS string that we created in PHP. We had to
duplicate it using JavaScript.
So in this lecture we need to figure out a way in order to avoid this duplication. Especially if you're
working in a large template the CSS string here could be very large and it's kind of impractical to keep
these two things in sync.
So what I'm proposing is defining our CSS styles just in the PHP and then passing the PHP to the JavaScript and
WordPress provides a way to do that.
So to pass variables from PHP to JavaScript WordPress provides a function called wp_localize_script().
So in the enqueue-assets.php file.
And what we need to do is when we enqueue our customize-preview file which is this one, we need to make
a PHP variable available here which is the CSS string that we want to add here.
So to do that before or after enqueueing the customize-preview file we can call a function called and
this is kind of similar to the add_inline_style().
This time it's called wp_localize_script(). And it also takes a "handle".
And this is the handle of the JavaScript file that you want the PHP variable to be available in.
So we want our PHP variable to be available in customize-preview file so give it this handle. And
the object name is a JavaScript object that will contain all your variables.
So let's call this "_themename".
and we'll use this object to put any PHP variables that we would like to post from PHP to
JavaScript. And you'll see more what I mean in a moment.
And then the last argument you pass an array of variables that you would like to be available inside this object.
So let's add a variable "x" and it will be equals to 3.
And now let's go back to our Customizer and refresh it.
And let's inspect the iframe. This one and then go to the end of the body where we have our JavaScript
files.
So as you can see we have our customize-preview.js file.
And right before it WordPress added this "var _themename" and then the object with our variables.
So we've x and 3.
So now if we, inside this file, let's try to do this now.
In the customize-preview, let's "console.log
(_themename)" and let's now open our console and refresh.
And we have an object with x equals to 3.
So this way we can instead of 3 we can parse any PHP variable, right?
So let's try and let's keep this console. And let's go to the enqueue-assets and let's include the same file
inline-css to make it, to make the variable available in this function.
And instead of 3 let's now pass the variable which is $inline_styles.
And we're consoling the "_themename" object.
So let's see what we've got now.
And as you can see we have our PHP string here which is this one. We've managed to pass it in the JavaScript
file.
So you might think,
all right,
I'm gonna use this "_themename.x" string and replace the inline styles with it. Like
so, in the customize-preview and I think ok. I'm gonna remove this and replace the CSS inside the inline styles
with "_themename.x". So let's see.
And let's try to change it. And nothing happens.
And that's because we are replacing the inline styles with the string and the string is already created
using the original color. And it won't change when we change the accent color because it's JavaScript
variable that is already created.
We haven't done anything to update this color.
So after doing is we are basically, let's "console.log
(_themename.x)" here. And refresh. And change it.
And whenever we change it we get the same string.
So what we're doing is we are basically adding the same string to the inline styles
again and again.
So nothing is happening.
So we still haven't solved our problem here.
We still need a way to regenerate these CSS styles in the JavaScript and updating the color as we change it
here.
So to do that we came up with an idea instead inside inline-css.php, instead of constructing
the CSS string like
so, I'm gonna create a variable and I'm gonna call it $inline_styles_selectors. And this is gonna
be an array and this array will contain the CSS selectors,
the "a" tag and the ":focus" and the "post.sticky"and so on. And these will be the keys of the array. We'll
have the "a" tag as a key.
And then as a value we have another array and this array will have a key of the CSS property.
So "color" and the value of the setting name. And you will see why I did that in a moment. So let's add
the rest of them the same way.
So we have the ":focus" as a key and value
an array with the "outline-color" and also the same thing.
So I'm now done creating the array of selectors with the properties and setting name. And now instead of
creating the inline styles string like so, let's comment this out,
and we will create it by looping through this array and constructing our CSS.
So let's define this variable again.
But now as an empty string.
And then we loop through our array and append to the empty string as we go.
So let's create a "foreach loop". And we need to loop through the $inline_styles_selectors and the key
will be the $selector. So the $selector will be the "a" and ":focus" and so on. And the value will be the $props.
And by $props I mean CSS props. So there will be an array of color and the setting name.
So now inside the loop you can append to the $inline_styles variable.
So what we will append is the $selector.
and than open a { for the CSS.
So the $selector will basically be replaced by the A tag in this case, in the first iteration. And then let's append the
closing } for the CSS. And followed by a space for the next one. So what will be in the middle
between the opening and the closing of the CSS selector?
We will loop through the array of props.
So in our case each array will contain one key but it may contain more.
So let's do a "foreach loop" again. And this time we need to loop through the value which is
$prop and each key will be $prop.
And the $value let's keep it as $value. And then we will append
the $prop.
And then the value of the $prop.
So what will be the value of the $prop.
We will concatenate it using the ". .", because we'll have to write a PHP function here.
What PHP function? It's get_theme_mod().
So in our case what will be the name of the field.
This one which is the value in our array.
So we're looping through this array for example,
so we have this key which is the $prop and its value is the setting name.
So this will be here.
So let's add the $value.
And a "default" which was this one in the commented code.
And also don't forget to sanitize as we did in the old code here.
And our ;.
So if you're still confused take your time to look at this loop and understand what it does. And what it does
is it just basically creates this string
but from this array instead of just adding it in the string. And we'll know why later in a moment.
So let's save now and see if this is still working.
So to check that we are passing the $inline_styles here in the add_inline_style.
So let's go to the source.
And let's make sure.
And as you can see here inside the inline-css we have created our string.
And if you took a closer look it's the same one as this one.
So you're probably wondering now why are we doing this. And this string was working fine.
Why are we looping and constructing the string this way?
Let's remove this old code.
Now we can pass this array to JavaScript. And using JavaScript
we will do this exact same loop and we will reconstruct the CSS string by using the updated accent color
value.
So to do that and it will become much clearer.
So now we want to parse the $inline_styles_selectors to the Javascript.
So in enqueue-assets instead of passing $inline_styles we will pass the array of selectors and I still have
"x" let's call it "inline-css".
"inline-css" and save.
And don't worry when you are passing a PHP array here. The wp_localize_script() will take care of converting it to JavaScript
object. So let's see now the, here our console.
And the "_themename" object.
So we have now inline-css.
And it's a JavaScript object with our CSS selectors as keys and the properties as values.
So it's basically the same exact thing as the PHP.
So what can we do with this now.
Let's go back to the customize-preview file and let's mimic this PHP loop.
But this time in JavaScript.
So, ok. We are repeating ourselves in this loop but we will repeat this loop once instead of repeating
the whole CSS string that that we used to use before.
So let's now remove this and this. And let's create a new variable. So "inline_css" and it will be an empty string.
And let's write a "forin loop". And the "forin loop" will loop through a JavaScript object like this one.
So it takes the key which is, this is actually in our case.
So for keys in our object which is "_themename" and "inline-css".
And we'll do the same thing.
We'll append the property name and the "{". And just JavaScript will take a $ and `
of course instead of " and the "selector" and "{" .
Then let's close it.
The symbol of the let were already defined the variable. And then let's look through the properties.
So another for loop, "forin loop", and this time the key will be the property and for each iteration we will
need to get the
properties object for the selector.
So this one and this one and so on.
And to get this we will access the "inline-css" object and the current key which is the current $selector
in this loop.
So essentially use this a lot
let's define a variable for it. Let's call it "inline_css_obj".
And let's use it here.
Instead of typing the this whole thing every time.
So now we have the property which will be these values, "border-left-color", "outline-color" and so on. And we need to get
the "_themename_accent_colour" which is setting name.
So how to get this in JavaScript? Let's find a variable called value or
"val". So we need the current properties object for our current selector. The "inline_css_obj" is the whole
this whole object. And the "selector" is the current selector which is one of these, "post.sticky"
and ":focus" and "a". So this way we are accessing each of these values.
The whole object. And we need the "_themename_accent_colour".
So we need to access this key, right?
And this key in our case will be the "prop".
So let's add it.
So the "val" now will contain the setting name.
So this is the most important part.
Let's now append the
property.
So we need the property name and then for the CSS syntax ":" and then the value for this property.
So how do we get the value for this property?
And we have the setting only the setting name. And the setting name
is this "val". So the WP Customize API provides a way to do this. So "wp.customize()"  and we give it the
setting name which is "val".
And then we call a function called ".get" and this will get the value for the setting name which in
our case is the color picker.
So this way each time the accent color changes we will reconstruct the "inlines_css" string. And loop
through the selectors that we already defined only one time in the PHP.
So we don't have to define them again in the JavaScript.
And then we will use the current value of the setting that we need to change which we past here.
The final step now is to append or replace the inline styles with the string that we just constructed.
So let's see now.
And let's try and change the color.
And as you can see it's now changing in real time.
We could have used instead of getting the value this way  we could have used the two variable
which will be the current value for the accent color.
But I intended to do this way
just to let you know that you can get the value for the setting using this way.
It could be useful if you have, maybe you have some button that has a color and another property
background color for example.
And these would be two different settings.
And in the callback you need to get these two settings. So using the two variables you'll only have the
value of the setting that changed but you won't have both of them. So using this way you will be able to get
any setting by its name.
I hope I'm making sense.
I know this section might be a little bit complicated.
So feel free to watch this lecture again and try to go through this code again and understand it if
if anything is unclear. And also feel free to leave me a question if you have any inquiry.
So that's it for this section.
Let's see what we can do next.